---
layout: default
title: Affiliated Events
showTitle: true
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Affiliated Events" %}


## What is a Affiliated Event?

Affiliated Events are an excellent venue for SIGCSE sub-communities or groups to arrange a time to gather and present or discuss topics of interest, typically over a meal or during a reception during the conference. We encourage submission of affiliated events that describe existing and emerging subfields, areas and groups of diversity, and bringing together communities of practice.

The SIGCSE 2019 organizers have a vision to encourage sub-communities to gather in their own affiliated events by submitting an affiliated event proposal that should include a description of the event and its importance and relevance and the proposed format for the event. **Affiliated event organizers are expected to [cover the cost of the room, food, and/or A/V](#logistics)**

If your affiliated event is accepted, affiliated events  invite members of your community to participate in the event. Your event organizers would be responsible for handling all affiliated event websites and participant organization.  The title, organization, abstract, and date/time for the affiliated event are included in the schedule.

**Proposals undergo review but not blind review.**  Affiliated events will be selected based on availability.


## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Event proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal contains an abstract and a body that describes your Event (as detailed below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF proposal and in a text box on the submission page.

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the Symposium website and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The format for the proposal is as follows.

### Event Proposal Format and Contents

-   **Title**: A title for the Pre-Symposium Event.

-   **Abstract**: A description of the Event. The same abstract will also need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page. Please be sure that your description is accurate and that both submitted copies (here in the Event Proposal, and in the submission text box) are exactly the same.

-   **Proposer(s)**:  Include name, affiliation, email address, and website address. You should expect most correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please check your spam filter if you haven’t received an expected notification because the auto-responses generated by the conference software are sometimes blocked.

-   **Significance and Relevance of the Event Topic/Purpose**: Please include information about any trends in relation to the subfield and possibly describe (or cite) evidence to that effect. Your objective here is to explain why the event or community served is significant.

-   **Intended Audience**: Briefly describe the nature and size of the intended/expected audience. This information will help gauge the level of interest SIGCSE attendees will have in the Event.

-   **Expertise of Organizer(s)**: Give a summary of the qualifications of the organizer(s) as it relates to the event being proposed.

-   **Audio/Visual and Room Setup Requirements**: Please enter these only on the EasyChair submission form, and not in your proposal upload document.

-	**Event Time Preference**: Please enter these only on the EasyChair submission form, unless you select "Other time ideas".  You have the choice between:

	* Breakfast (on Thursday, Friday, or Saturday as scheduled by the Affiliated Events Chairs); 
	
	* Lunch (Thursday or Friday, as scheduled by the Affiliated Events Chairs); 
	
	* Reception (Friday); 
	
	* Other time ideas - please specify in the proposal 


### Event Proposal Abstract

The abstract is the description of the event that will appear on the conference web pages. The description is limited to and must match verbatim the abstract section of the Event Proposal. The Event abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted proposal may contain a URL with more information. (Abstracts of accepted Events can be edited in response to feedback.)

### Sample Proposal

-  [Proposal Example (PDF)](../docs/sigcse-sample-event.pdf)

-  [Proposal Example (Word)](../docs/sigcse-sample-event.docx)

<a name="logistics"></a>

## Logistics
The logistics information for Affiliated Events are detailed below.  Once the Affiliated Event is accepted the Pre-Symposium and Affiliated Events Chairs will contact organizers for further details about logistics including invoicing. 

### Rooms
Room and A/V costs will depend on particular needs.  Please email the Pre-Symposium and Affiliated Events Chairs for more details.
  
### Food and Beverage
Food and beverage must be paid by the Affiliated Event organizers directly to the hotel.

### Registration
Registration must be handled by the Affiliated Event organizers and will not be handled by the SIGCSE registration system.

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

{% include generic-submission-block.html %}

{% include presenter-warning.html kind = "affiliated event" %}

{% include submission-questions category="Pre-Symposium and Affiliated Events" %}




