---
layout: default
title: "Author Guidelines: Posters"
showTitle: true
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Posters" %}

## What Is A Poster?

Posters provide an opportunity for an informal presentation featuring “give and take” with conference attendees. Presenting a poster is also a good way in which to discuss and receive feedback on work in progress that has not been fully developed into a paper.

Posters should not be previously published, as a paper or a poster.

**Poster proposal review is not blind.**

Graduate or undergraduate students submitting posters may instead wish
to submit to the [ACM Student Research Competition (SRC)](src.html) held
at SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}}. Like normal posters, SRC posters are
displayed at the conference, but the top poster authors also present
their work orally and may win prizes and proceed to the international ACM
Student Research Competition.  [Please note that this year there is also an award from the Council of Undergraduate Research (CUR) for undergraduates presenting posters.](#cur) 

## Poster Topic Ideas

Any topic relevant to the conference focus areas is suitable for presentation as a poster. These include new results and insights around developing, implementing, or evaluating computing programs, curricula, and courses.  However, the topic should lend itself to presentation in poster format with additional details available in a handout or URL. You might consider a poster presentation of teaching materials that you would like to share or preliminary research findings, such as:

-   imaginative assignments
-   innovative curriculum design
-   laboratory materials
-   effective ideas for recruiting and retaining students
-   computing education research that is in a preliminary stage

Suggestions for poster design are given in [Research Posters 101](http://xrds.acm.org/article.cfm?aid=332138). (Although these suggestions were published for student researchers, the ideas are also applicable to posters for this conference.)

## Poster Presentation

Poster presentation submissions at SIGCSE will be competitive, and if your proposal is accepted, your poster will be displayed for a 2-hour time period during the conference. You will be expected to “present” your poster at that time. At least one author for each accepted poster must register for and attend the conference. The space available for your poster will be 4 feet high by 8 feet wide with a small shelf below. Power sources are not available.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal contains an abstract and a body that describes your poster (as detailed below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF proposal and in a text box on the submission page.

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the Symposium website and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The format for the proposal is as follows.

### Poster Proposal Format and Contents

Limited to {{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}}.

-   **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation, email address, and website address. You should expect most
    correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please
    check your spam filter if you haven't received an expected
    notification because the auto-responses generated by the conference
    software are sometimes blocked.

-   **Title**: A title for the poster.

-   **Abstract**: Limited to 250 words. An abstract summarizes the major aspects of the entire paper in a prescribed sequence that includes: 1) the overall purpose of the study and the research problem(s) you investigated; 2) the basic design of the study; 3) major findings or trends found as a result of your analysis; and, 4) a brief summary of your interpretations and conclusions. The same abstract will also need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page. Please be sure that your description is accurate and that both submitted copies (here in the poster proposal, and in the submission text box) are exactly the same.

-   **Significance and Relevance of the Topic**: Please include information about any trends in relation to the topic and possibly describe (or cite) evidence to that effect. Your objective here is to explain why the topic is significant. You should also justify how your poster will engage participants in discussion.

-   **Content**: A description of the expected content of the poster.

### Poster Abstract

The abstract is the description of the poster that will appear on the conference web pages. The description is limited to and must match verbatim the abstract section of the poster Proposal. The poster abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted proposal may contain a URL with more information. (Abstracts of accepted posters can be edited in response to reviews.)

### Sample Proposal

-  [Proposal Example (PDF)](../docs/sigcse-sample-poster.pdf)

-  [Proposal Example (Word)](../docs/sigcse-sample-poster.docx)

<a name="cur"></a>

## Council for Undergraduate Research Award

The Council for Undergraduate Research’s (CUR) Math and Computer Science Division is partnering with the SIGCSE Technical Symposium to reward excellence in undergraduate research as part of the Posters track. There are awards for undergraduate poster authors with significant contributions to the presented work. 

Poster presentations by undergraduates will be judged by at least two judges.  Students will be evaluated on the following:

* Organization: of the poster and the presentation
* Delivery: of the poster presentation
* Supporting Materials: explanations, examples, and/or illustrations that support discussion of the research
* Significance: the intellectual merit, research question importance, and foundation for future work

For consideration, please check the option __Presenting Author is an Undergraduate Student__ during submission of the poster.  The undergraduate student must be present during the poster presentation to be evaluated and be eligible for the award.  

Please note that this award is separate from the [ACM Student Research Competition](src.html).  Undergraduate students participating in the ACM Student Research Competition are not eligible for consideration of the CUR award.


## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

{% include generic-submission-block.html %}

{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Posters" %}
